# Trademark Policy

## Introduction

This document, the "Policy," outlines the Hylodoc project's (the "Project")
policy for the use of our trademarks. While our software is available under a
free and open source software license, the copyright license does not include an
implied right or license to use our trademark.

The role of trademarks is to provide assurance about the quality of the products
or services with which the trademark is associated. But because an open source
license allows your unrestricted modification of the copyrighted software, we
cannot be sure that your modifications to the software are ones that will not be
misleading if distributed under the same name. Instead, this Policy describes
the circumstances under which you may use our trademarks.

In this Policy we are not trying to limit the lawful use of our trademarks, but
rather describe for you what we consider the parameters of lawful use to be.
Trademark law can be ambiguous, so we hope to provide enough clarity for you to
understand whether we will consider your use licensed or non-infringing.

The sections that follow describe what trademarks are covered by this Policy, as
well as uses of the trademarks that are allowed without additional permission
from us. If you want to use our trademarks in ways that are not described in
this Policy, please see [Where to get further information](#further) below for
contact information. Any use that does not comply with this Policy or for which
we have not separately provided written permission is not a use that we have
approved, so you must decide for yourself whether the use is nevertheless
lawful.

## Our commitment to open source principles

We want to encourage and facilitate the use of our trademarks by the community,
but do so in a way that still ensures that the trademarks are meaningful as a
source and quality indicator for our software and the associated goods and
services and continue to embody the high reputation of the software and the
community associated with it. This Policy therefore tries to strike the proper
balance between: 1) our need to ensure that our trademarks remain reliable
indicators of the qualities that they are meant to preserve and 2) our community
members' desire to be full participants in the Project.

## Trademarks subject to the guidelines

### Our trademarks

This Policy covers:

1. Our word trademarks and service marks (the "Word Marks"):

    | Mark	| Common descriptive name for the goods or services	|
    |-----------|-------------------------------------------------------|
    | HYLODOC	| software platform					|
    | HYLODOC	| software tool						|

2. Our logos (the "Logos"):

    ![Hylodoc logo](logo.svg)

2. And the unique visual styling of our website and packaging (the "Trade Dress").

This Policy encompasses all trademarks and service marks, whether Word Marks,
Logos or Trade Dress, which are collectively referred to as the "Marks." Some
Marks may not be registered, but registration does not equal ownership of
trademarks. This Policy covers our Marks whether they are registered or not.

<!--
### The trademarks we are not licensing in this Policy

The following trademarks are ones that are reserved exclusively to our use and
are not covered by the Policy:

<<List marks that you dont want others using without permission>>

Contact us as described in [Where to get further information](#further) below
if you have questions or want to ask permission to use any of these excluded
trademarks.
-->

## Universal considerations for all uses {#universal}

Whenever you use one of the Marks, you must always do so in a way that does not
mislead anyone, either directly or by omission, about exactly what they are
getting and from whom. The law reflects this requirement in two major ways
described in more detail [below](#trademark-law): it prohibits creating a
["likelihood of confusion"](#confusion) but allows for
["nominative use."](#nominative) For example, you cannot say you are
distributing the Hylodoc software when you're distributing a modified version of
it, because people would be confused when they are not getting the same features
and functionality they would get if they downloaded the software directly from
us. You also cannot use our logo on your website in a way that suggests that
your website is an official website or that we endorse your website. You can,
though, say you like the Hylodoc software, that you participate in the Hylodoc
community, that you are providing an unmodified version of the Hylodoc software,
or that you wrote a book describing how to use the Hylodoc software.

This fundamental requirement, that it is always clear to people what they are
getting and from whom, is reflected throughout this Policy. It should also serve
as your guide if you are not sure about how you are using the Marks.

In addition:

You may not use the Marks in association with the use or distribution of
software if you are also not in compliance with the copyright license for the
software.

You may not use or register, in whole or in part, the Marks as part of your own
trademark, service mark, domain name, company name, trade name, product name or
service name.

Trademark law does not allow your use of names or trademarks that are too
similar to ours. You therefore may not use an obvious variation of any of our
Marks or any phonetic equivalent, foreign language equivalent, takeoff, or
abbreviation for a similar or compatible product or service. We would consider
the following too similar to one of our Marks:

- Hylodocly
- Hylodocuments
- Xylodoc

You agree that you will not acquire any rights in the Marks and that any
goodwill generated by your use of the Marks inures solely to our benefit.

## Use for software

See [Universal considerations for all uses](#universal), above, which also apply.

### Uses we consider non-infringing

#### Distribution of unmodified source code or unmodified executable code we have compiled

When you redistribute an unmodified copy of our software, you are not changing
the quality or nature of it. Therefore, you may retain the Word Marks and the
Logos we have placed on the software to identify your redistribution – whether
that redistribution is made by optical media, memory stick or download of
unmodified source and executable code. This kind of use only applied if you are
redistributing an official distribution from this Project that has not been
changed in any way. <!--You can find files for the Logos and approved designs for
packaging on our <<Brand Standards>> page.-->

#### Statements about compatibility, interoperability or derivation

You may use the Word Marks, but not the Logos, to truthfully describe the
relationship between your software and ours. Our Mark should be used after a
verb or preposition that describes the relationship between your software and
ours. So you may say, for example, "Bob's software for the Hylodoc platform"
but may not say "Bob's Hylodoc software." Some other examples that may work
for you are:

- [Your software] works with Hylodoc software

- [Your software] uses Hylodoc software

- [Your software] is compatible with Hylodoc software

- [Your software] is powered by Hylodoc software

- [Your software] runs on Hylodoc software

- [Your software] for use with Hylodoc software

- [Your software] for Hylodoc software.

### Uses we consider infringing without seeking further permission from us

We will likely consider using the Marks for an executable form of the software
built from our source code to be an infringement of our Marks. We cannot assure
that the software meets our standards of quality if we did not build it.

We will likely consider using the Marks in a software distribution that combines
our software with any other software program an infringement of our Marks. We
would consider your software "combined" with ours if you create a single
executable for both software programs, as well as if by installing our software
it automatically installs yours. We would not consider your software "combined"
with ours if it is on the same media but requires separate, independent action
to install it.

## Use for non-software goods and services

See [Universal considerations for all uses](#universal), above, which also apply.

### Uses we consider non-infringing

#### Publications and presentations

You can use the Word Marks in book and article titles, and the Logo in
illustrations within the document, as long as the use does not suggest that we
have published, endorse, or agree with your work.

### Uses for which we are granting a license

#### User groups

You can use the Word Marks as part of your user group name provided that:

- The main focus of the group is the software;

- Any software or services the group provides are without cost;

- The group does not make a profit;

- Any charge to attend meetings are to cover the cost of the venue, food and
  drink only.

Note that the [Universal considerations for all uses](#universal), above, still
apply, specifically, that you may not use or register the Marks as part of your
own trademark, service mark, domain name, company name, trade name, product name
or service name.

### Uses we consider infringing without seeking further permission from us

We will likely consider using the Marks as part of a domain name or subdomain an
infringement of our Marks.

We would likely consider using the Marks on promotional goods for sale an
infringement of our Marks.

## General Information

### Trademark marking and legends

The first or most prominent mention of a Mark on a webpage, document, packaging,
or documentation should be accompanied by a symbol indicating whether the mark
is a registered trademark ("®") or an unregistered trademark ("™"). See our
Trademark List for the correct symbol to use.

Also, if you are using our Marks in a way described in the sections "Uses for
which we are granting a license," please put following notice at the foot of the
page where you have used the Mark (or, if in a book, on the credits page), on
any packaging or labeling, and on advertising or marketing materials:
"Hylodoc is trademark of the Hylodoc Project. Used with permission from the
Hylodoc Project."

### What to do when you see abuse

If you are aware of any confusing use or misuse of the Marks in any way, we
would appreciate you bringing this to our attention. Please contact us as
described [below](#further) so that we can investigate it further.

### Where to get further information {#further}

If you have any questions about this Policy, would like to speak with us about
the use of our Marks in ways not described in the Policy, or see any abuse of
our Marks, please email us at [tm@hylodoc.com](mailto:tm@hylodoc.com).

## General considerations about trademarks and their use

### What trademark law is about {#trademark-law}

#### What is a trademark?

A trademark is a word, phrase, symbol or design, or a combination of words,
phrases, symbols or designs, that identifies and distinguishes the source of the
goods of one party from those of others. A service mark is the same as a
trademark, except that it identifies and distinguishes the source of a service
rather than a product. "Trade dress" or "get up" refers to the look and feel of
the packaging, which in this context can include the layout, colors, images, and
design choices in a web page. Throughout this Policy, the terms "trademark" and
"mark" refer to both trademarks, service marks and trade dress.

However, the use of a word is "not as a trademark" when it is used functionally
as part of the software program, for example, in a file, folder, directory, or
path name. Use in this way is not a trademark infringement.

#### What is "likelihood of confusion"? {#confusion}

There is trademark infringement if your use of a trademark has created a
"likelihood of confusion." This means using a trademark in a way that will
likely confuse or deceive the relevant consuming public about the source of a
product or service using the mark in question. For example, if the "Foo"
software extension removes all double spaces after periods, but someone else
later creates "Foo" software that adds a third space after periods, consumers
would be confused between the two and the newcomer will likely be a trademark
infringer. As another example, if a company makes "Foobar" software and a third
party offers training called "Foobar Certification," a person is likely to
believe, wrongly, that the certification is being offered by the makers of
Foobar software. The third party has likely misled consumers about the source of
its training and is a trademark infringer.

#### What is "nominative" use? {#nominative}

So-called "nominative use" (or "nominative fair use"), which is the name of the
doctrine under U.S. trademark law, allows the use of another's trademark where
it is necessary for understanding. Other countries' trademark laws also have
similar provisions. For example, a car repair shop that specializes in a
particular brand of automobile, VW for example, must be allowed to say that they
repair VW cars. Here is what you should consider when deciding whether your use
of a trademark is a nominative fair use:

Whether you can identify the product or service in question without using the
trademark; Whether you are avoiding a likelihood of confusion in the way that
you have used the trademark; and Whether you have used only as much as is
necessary to identify the product or service.  With our "Foobar Certification"
example above, the person offering the certification would be allowed to say,
under the nominative fair use doctrine, that she is offering "Maude's
Certification for Foobar software."

It is almost never the case that using a Logo will be a nominative fair use
since it will be a rare case where the logo is needed for strictly informational
purposes.

### Proper trademark use

These rules hold true for all trademarks, not just ours, so you should follow
them for our Marks as well as anyone else's.

#### Use of trademarks in text

##### Always distinguish trademarks from surrounding text with at least initial capital letters or in all capital letters.

- Unacceptable: hylodoc

- Acceptable: Hylodoc, HYLODOC

##### Always use trademarks in their exact form with the correct spelling, neither abbreviated, hyphenated, or combined with any other word or words.

- Unacceptable: hYlOdOc

- Acceptable: Hylodoc

##### Don't pluralize a trademark.

- Unacceptable: I have seventeen Hylodocs running in my lab.

- Acceptable: I have seventeen Hylodoc systems running in my lab.

##### Don't use "a" or "the" to refer to an instance of the trademark.

- Unacceptable: I put a Hylodoc on my mom's computer.

- Acceptable: I put a Hylodoc system on my mom's computer.

##### Always use a trademark as an adjective modifying a noun. You can see the nouns we prefer under "Our trademarks."

- Unacceptable: This is a Hylodoc. Anyone can install it.

- Acceptable: This is a Hylodoc application. Anyone can install it.

##### Don't use a trademark as a verb. Trademarks are products or services, never actions.

- Unacceptable: I Hylodocified my computer today!

- Acceptable: I installed Hylodoc software on my computer today!

##### Don't use a trademark as a possessive. Instead, the following noun should be used in possessive form or the sentence reworded so there is no possessive.

- Unacceptable: Hylodoc's desktop interface is very clean.

- Acceptable: The Hylodoc desktop's interface is very clean.

##### Don't translate a trademark into another language.

- Unacceptable: Quiero instalar el Hylodoco en mi sistema.

- Acceptable: Quiero instalar Hylodoc en mi sistema.

#### Use of Logos

You may not change any Logo except to scale it. This means you may not add
decorative elements, change the colors, change the proportions, distort it, add
elements, or combine it with other logos.

However, when the context requires the use of black-and-white graphics and the
logo is color, you may reproduce the logo in a manner that produces a
black-and-white image.

These guidelines are based on the Model Trademark Guidelines, available at
[http://www.modeltrademarkguidelines.org](http://www.modeltrademarkguidelines.org),
used under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported license:
[https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/deed.en_US](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/deed.en_US).
